---
# Please do not edit this file directly; it is auto generated.
# Instead, please edit 00-intro.md in _episodes_rmd/
title: "Before we Start"
teaching: 10
exercises: 5
questions:
- "What should I remember about R?"
- "Is this an introduction to R?"
objectives:
- "Align expectations to required knowledge"
- "Get an overview of the aims of this course"
keypoints:
- "This course builds on previous courses and is not suitable for absolute beginners."
- "We begin by accessing an API using lowlevel methods, and end by applying them on another API"
source: Rmd
---



## This is not an introduction to R

This course assumes a certain level of knowledge about R. We are not going
to cover the basics, and you are expected to know how to use the following functionalities in R before starting this course.

- Have R and R-studio installed. 
  Alternatively run everything on rstudio.cloud
- Know how to assign values to variables
- know what a function is, and how we pass input and parameters to it
- be familiar with the %>% operator
- know the basic verbs from dplyr of the tidyverse:
    - select
    - filter
    - mutate
    - arrange
    - summarise
- be familiar with dataframes
- know how to install and load packages
- Know how to comment your code
- do math on variables
- Get the concept of vectors
- subsetting vectors and dataframes
- logical tests
- Use NA to encode missing values
- read in data from a csv/excel

If any of these topics are unfamiliar, we strongly recommend that you either 
take one of our introductory courses, read up on the curriculum of one of them, 
or follow one of the many amazing courses you can find online, before taking 
this course.


## New concepts in R
Three concepts are typically not covered in our introductions.

- Factors
- dates
- lists

We will look at them when we need them.

## What is covered?

We will look at how to extract data from APIs in general, using the API of 
Statistics Denmark as an example. 

The package *danstat* is introduced. This is provides an easier way to interact
with Statistics Denmark.

Finally we are using the insights from the first part to extract data from 
wikidata, the database and API that consolidates information across Wikipedia.


{% include links.md %}
